Ableist InfrastructureAspects of the built environment, communication networks,policies, laws, and language thatoppress people with disabilities.BordersImaginary geographical lines between states that limit the free movement of people and distribution of goods.Climate RefugeesThe mass migration of peopleforced to flee their homes due toextreme weather events likedrought, wildfires, and hurricanes.DeforestationThe destruction of forests accelerates climate chaos, extincts species, and increasesthe risk of pandemics.Gender-based ViolenceHarms in physical, sexual,psychological, and economicform repress and punish peoplealong hierarchies of gender.Digital DivideThe gaps in essential informationand communicative freedomexperienced by people withoutinternet access.HungerEnough food is available tonourish the world’s population,and yet, millions are denied access to adequate nutrition.HomelessnessPrivatized property relations andthe lack of social housing thwartuniversal access to the stability,safety, and shelter of a home.LandfillsAll landfills evenutally leak,leaching toxic chemicals,pollutants, and contaminants intothe surrounding soil and water.Mass IncarcerationA vast and growing populationof humans is caged inside ofprisons and local jails.Mass SurveilanceOur physical and virtual spacesare increasingly monitored toenforce their enclosure as meansof profit and social control.Medical DebtCostly yet neccessary medicineand healthcare forces many tochoose between debt andbankruptcy or their wellbeing.Police ViolenceThe police enforce socialhierarchies, protect property, andrepress political dissent througha monopoly on violence.Nuclear WeaponsWe live under threat of globaldestruction by warheads that —even if disarmed — will remainradioactive for 100,000 years.BureaucracyA small class of administrators, professionals, and managers control information, gatekeep resources, and enervate people with nonsense.Water CrisisWater pollution, contamination, dispossession, and overuse threaten human and non-human access to means of life.Gun ViolenceBlowback from imperialist wars triggers a vicious and profitable cycle of fear, armament, and death.Disease PandemicsMost infectious outbreaks are cross-species in origin, with transmission exacerbated by overcrowding due to habitat destruction and factory farming.ToilThe great majority are overworked yet unfulfilled by labor that is onerous, tedious, dangerous, and/or socially unnecessary.Soil DepletionThe Earth is losing its thin layer of living soil due to the growing rift between where food is grown, consumed, and defecated.Broadcasts“We finally and suddenly arrive at the place where we must have known we were headed all along: the edge of the human.”- Adam Greenfield, 02017Artificial Intelligence“Nature [is] an unlimited broadcastingstation, through which God speaks to usevery hour, if we will only tune in.”- George Washington Carver, 01930Civic Banks“Extension of the credit system, alike to the everday usage of the people...betterment of environment , and improvement of population.”- Patrick Geddes, 01919Clothing Design“The material itself being living while it’s onyou....diagnosing and treating, nourishingso becoming part of your wellbeing.”- Suzanne Lee, 02017Community Land Rights“In the ancient world, all revolutionarymovements had a single program:cancel the debts and redistribute the land.”- David Graeber, 02011Cooperatives“We believe...the means of productionshould be taken form the businessmen and placed in the community.”- Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seals, 01966Direct Democracy“We must spread our principles, not withwords, but with deeds, for this is the mostirresistible form of propoganda.”- Mikhail Bakunin, 01870Direct Action“An assembled public...can deal in acompetent, face-to-face manner with the direction of public affairs.”- Murray Bookchin, 01982Education“Every revolutionary project is, above allan educational one.”- Murray Bookchin, 01990Electoral Campaigns“You may abolish this system if you will … But the new order can never be established by mere votes alone.”- Eugene Debs, 01904/01910Family Wisdom“We can imagine a future in which most oflife’s material needs are provided in this way,from suitcases to lawnmowers, to speed boats.”- Cory Doctorow, 02019Equipment Library“Memory is the enemy of totalitarianism.”- Henry Giroux, 02016General Strike“Hunter-gatherers, by nature, store information for use, understanding that theremay be a time when information is scarce.”- Connor, Copeland, & Kearns, 02003Flora/Fauna Identification“A strike is an incipient revolution. Manylarge revolutions have grown out of asmall strike.”- William “Big Bill” Haywood, 01911Graffiti“The most revolutionary thing one can dois always to proclaim loudly what ishappening.”- Rosa Luxumburg, 01913Guerilla Gardening“Move quietly and plant things.”- Andrew Dana Hudson, 02015Healing Arts“Variety of form and brilliancy of colour in theobjects presented to patients have a powerfuleffect and are actual means of recovery.”- Florence Nightingale, 01859Journalism“Those who tell the stories rule society.”- Plato, 00375 BCELibrary“In a solitary chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house, and separated...by a gallery and a staircase, I kept my workshop of filthy creation.”- Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, 01818Laboratory“If you have a garden in your library,everything will be complete.”- Cicero, 46 BCEMass Protest“We must always take sides. Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.”- Elie Wiesel, 01986Memes“We steal, repurpose, re-examine, and ultimately redefine everything from celbrities to politicians, to corporate logos and redistribute these skewed ideas to the public for free.”- David Constable, 02018Off-grid Energy“The capitalists don’t want anyone livingoff their economic grid.”- Jessica Bruder, 02017Participatory Budgeting“The citizen’s participation...ceases to be an enabler of traditional politics and becomes a permanent protagonist of public administration.”- Ubiratán de Souza, 01998Agro-Ecology“To stike a pose is to pose a threat.”- Dick Hebdige, 01982Performance“Agribusiness disrupts the climate. Peasant agriculture protects the Earth.”- La Via Campesina, 02015Photography“The camera is an instrument that teaches people how to see without a camera.”- Dorothea Lange, 01978Pirate Radio“The miniaturization of transmitters...put together by amatuers, ‘encounters’ a collective aspiration for some new means of expression.”- Felix Guatarri, 01984Public Transport“Forge the damned motor car and buildcities for lovers and friends.”- Lewis Mumford, 01979Reparations“The wealth of the imperial countries isour wealth too...It’s just reparationswhich will be paid to us.”- Franz Fanon, 01961Unions“If I admit I’ve learned something, then itmeans my entire political project is a lie.”- Shawn Vulliez, 02020Satire“The Union can only act in a revolutionary wayto the extent that the [revolutionary] ideal isgiven precendence over [reformist] interest.”- Errico Malatesta, 01922Upcycling“Often when you think you’re at the end ofsomething, you’re at the beginning ofsomething else.”- Fred Rogers, 02003Vertical Farms“It takes a lot of skill to be able to grow food sustainably. It’s an art form. We need to raise agriculture up...because the food that we eat is the most important thing in our lives.”- Will Allen, 02016Visionary Fiction“We live in capitalism. Its power seems inescapable. So did the divine right of kings...Resistance and change often begin in art, and very often in our art, the art of words.”- Ursula K. Le Guin, 02014Carpentry“The demands of freedom confront us with a much heavier choice...We will have to physically disassemble much of the world we live in and build it anew.”- Peter Gelderloos, 02008Disaster Relief“Dining is a ritual of generosity and hospitality: sharing the riches of one’s table, welcoming guests, feeding them, providing them with refuge”- Maria Saffiotti Dale, 02020Community Meals“We see the sense of community and mutual aid that develops int he wake of crisis as fertile ground to merge social mevement theory and praxis.”- Mutual Aid Disaster Relief, 02018Documentation“My way leads towards the creation of a fresh perception of the world. Thus I explain in a new way the world unknown to you.”- Dziga Vertov, 01923Free Store“There’s no such thing as a free lunch under capitalism — for anarchists, there’s no other kind.”- CrimethInc., 02007Parks“A shared natural or social wealth—lands, waters, forests, systems of knowledge, capacities for care—to be used by all commoners.”- George Caffentiz & Silvia Federici, 02014Print Shop“With our intimate knowledge of the printing process, we can turn a blank sheet of paper and some ink into a tool, a gift to be shared and passed down.”- Radix Media, 02010Self-Defense“Protest is when I say I refuse to go along with this anymore. Resistance is when I make sure everybody else stops going along too.”- Ulrike Maria Meinhof, 01968Sabotage“Freedom is hte sure possession of those alone who have the courage to defend it.”- Pericles, 400 BCESolidarity Clinic“We aspire to a medical science that does not simply perceive the symptom but treats it as part of the human being as a whole.”- Group for a Different Medicine, 02020Transformative Justice“We need the people within our movements, all socialized into and by unjust systems, to be on liberation paths. Not already free, but practicing freedom every day.”- adrienne marie brown, 02020Biomimicryn. [bahy-oh-min-ik-ree]The use of living structuresand systems to inspire art,craft, design, and engineering.Beautyn. [byoo-tee]An assemblage of properties pleasing to the eye, the ear, the intellect, or moral sense.Caren. [kair]The attention towards andlabor of meeting people’sneeds on their own terms.Communalityn. [kom-yun-nal-i-tee]A feeling of cooperation andbelonging arising fromcommon interests and goals.Consentn. [kuhn-sent]The presence of voluntary,non-coercive agreement withthe absence of objections.Cooperationn. [koh-op-uh-rey-shuhn]Working together; the sharingof space or resources towardsa common purpose.Erosn. [ee-kol-uh-jee]The interdependence of livingand nonliving things in thedynamic balance of nature.Ecologyn. [eh-rows]Life energy; the will to live; the sensual, creative impulseof love or desire.Freedomn. [free-duhm]The full realization ofhumanity’s potentialities intheir most creative form.Generativityn. [jen-uhr-uh-tiv-i-tee]The desire to contribute tosociety, especially with regardto future generations.Ingenuityn. [in-juh-noo-uh-tee]The capacity for invention,skillfullness or cleverness indevising or combining.Interdependencen. [in-ter-di-pen-duhns]Mutual reliance; the inherent relations of individuals,communities, and ecosystems.Paidian. [pie-dee-uh]Spontaneous play or fantasy;exuberant amusement,carefree improvisation.Joyn. [joi]The vivid happiness arisingfrom a sense of well-being orsatisfaction, delight.Parrhesian. [puh-REEZ-ee-uh]Rebellion; free, frank, andfearless speech; boldlyspeaing truth to power.Pura Vidan. [poo-rah-vee-dah]The good life; flourishingacross a lifetime in harmonywith other people and nature.Responsibilityn. [ruh-spaan-suh-bih-luh-tee]The taking of accountabilityfor, and the fulfillment of,ethical duties or obligations.Self-determinationn. [self-di-tur-muh-ney-shun]The freedom to makedecisions and act in the absence of external control.The Irreducible Minimumn. [saa-luh-DEH-ruh-tee]A bond of unity aroundcommon goals, interests,principles, or responsibilities.Solidarityn. [ee-ruh-doo-suh-bl mi-nuh-muhm]The entitlement of everyone ina community to the essentialmeans of life.Truthn. [trooth]In accordance with reality;the facts of the matter;veracity; sincerity.Usufructn. [yoo-seh-fruhkt]The free use and enjoyment of resources, so long as they are not harmed in the process.Convivialityn. [kuhn-vi-vee-al-uh-tee]A spirit of friendliness, festivity, and hospitality; making people feel happy and welcome.Gracen. [gray-ss]Freely extending kindness, benevolence, or goodwill towards others.Inquiryn. [hyoo-mr]The quality of being amusing, comical, witty, or absurd.Humorn. [in-kwr-ee]The process of seeking or questioning; a close examination.Internationalismn. [in-tr-na-shuh-nul-iz-um]An ethic of cooperation, interdependence, and solidarity between all earthbound peoples.Reconciliationn. [reh-kuhn-sil-ee-ay-shn]The airing of truths and redress of harms towards mutual accord or harmony.Seasonalityn. [see-zn-al-uh-tee]The alignment of social relations and practices with the ecological cycles of a bioregion.Wondern. [wuhn-dr]A sense of awe or revernce for the beautiful, unfamiliar, inexplicable.Decolonizationn. [dee-kaa-luh-nuh-zay-shn]The (re)indigenization of life towards societal transculturation.Builderarchitect, assembler, jugaadistCoordinatordelegate, planner, facilitatorEldersage, mentor, advisorEngineertechnician, machinist, operatorGrowerforester, forager, agroecologistHackerprogrammer, whistleblower, cryptographerHealermedic, counselor, caregiverTeachernurturer, skill sharer, guideCriticskeptic, satirist, gadflyImaginateurdreamer, creator, eccentricResearcherarchivist, investigator, naturalistRevelerbohemian, merrymaker, entertainer